Source: J. C. McDowell, GCAT, 'Phases and Status Values',
https://planet4589.org/space/gcat/web/intro/phases.html (GCAT release 1.8.8), retrieved 29 Sep 2026.
Text extracted verbatim from the page HTML; whitespace collapsed.

Phases and Status Values 
Each entry in the General Catalog represents a time period or phase in
the flight history of an object. The !b status value describes the
status of the object at the end of the phase. Typical values of the
status are 'O' (still in orbit) and 'R' (reentered). But it can get a
lot more complicated.
 Phases 
Each time an object transitions to another state (undocks, is attached to something, reenters,
changes which body it is orbiting, etc.) marks the beginning or end of a
 phase. 
Most objects in GCAT have only a single phase - they separate from an object (launch vehicle) and
then are either still in free flight or have reentered. However, some objects go through many phases.

Status value Description Interpretation Externality 
 Cases with t2 and Dest both empty 
 O In orbit Sep from P at t1, still in free flight Free 
 AO Attached in orbit Attached to P from t1 to present External 
 AO IN Attached inside Inside P from t1 to present Internal 
 UDK Undocked Docked to P from t1 to t2, sep from P at t2 External to free 
 REL Released Attached to P from t1 to t2, sep from P at t2 External to free 
 DEP Deployed Same as REL but for objects on planetary surface External to free 
 TO Takeoff Launch from C surface (C is a small body, not a world) Free 
 TOA (was ALO) Attached at takeoff Attached to P from t1 to t2 including at launch from C surface. External 
 OX In orbit (probably) but lost As O, but no recent tracking data Free 
 Dest is always blank but t2 is not 
 E Exploded Sep from P at t1, free in orbit until breakup at t2. Next phase of this object is a debris fragment. Free 
 N Renamed In orbit from t1 to t2, name or owner changed at t2. Next phase reflects new name and owner Free 
 NA Renamed attached Attached to P from t1 to t2, name or owner changed at t2. Next phase reflects new name and owner External 
 LEASE Lease Temporary lease from main owner from t1 to t2. SatType code is PA. Free 
 Dest is a location on C, or C itself, or blank (see also 'Dest is a body name' below) 
 S Targeted suborbital entry/impact Sep from P at t1, crashed or destroyed in atmosphere at t2 at end of launch trajectory Free 
 R Reentered Sep from P at t1, destroyed in C's atmosphere at t2 after natural decay Free 
 D Deorbited Sep from P at t1, destroyed in C's atmosphere at t2 via active deorbit maneuver Free 
 L Landed Sep from P at t1, landed or splashed down on C's surface at t2 Free 
 LF Failed landing Intact on reaching Earth surface but actually destroyed on or immediately after impact Free 
 AS Suborbital reentered attached Attached to P from t1 to t2 when P reentered External 
 AR Reentered attached Attached to P from t1 to t2 when P reentered External 
 AR IN Reentered inside Inside P from t1 to t2 when P reentered Internal 
 AL Landed attached Attached to P from t1 to t2 when P landed External 
 AL IN Landed inside Inside P from t1 to t2 when P landed Internal 
 TX Transmission ended Operated on C's surface from t1 to t2 Free 
 F Failed Sep from P at t1, crashed or destroyed at t2 during launch failure Free 
 AF Failed attached Attached to P at all times until it and P crashed or destroyed at t2 during launch failure External or internal. 
 Dest is a JCAT from D catalog (deep space). JCAT ID used in deep space catalog for this object is given by the Dest value. 
 DSO Deep space Sep from P at t1, passed deep space boundary at t2. Free 
 DSA Deep space attached Attached to P since t1, passed deep space boundary at t2. External 
 DSA IN Deep space inside Inside P since t1, passed deep space boundary at t2. Internal 
 LO Liftoff Launch from C surface (C is a world but not Earth), catalog reassigned to dest Free 
 LOA Reflight attached Launch from C surface (C is a world but not Earth) aboard parent object, catalog reassigned to dest External or Internal 
 Dest is a JCAT from the main catalogs (not from D catalog) 
 DK Docked Sep from P at t1, docked with D at t2 Free to External 
 GRP Grappled Sep from P at t1, docked with D at t2 Free to External 
 ATT Attached Was attached to P at t1, then attached to D at t2 External. 
 TFR Transfer Inside P at t1, moved inside D at t2 Internal 
 TFR E Transfer external Inside P at t1, moved to exterior of D at t2 Internal to External 
 TFR IN Transfer in Outside P at t1, moved to interior of D at t2 External to Internal (same as RET) 
 C Collided Collided with D at t2 Free 
 EVA DP Spacewalk (depress) Inside P at t1, began depressurization of airlock of D at t2 Internal to External 
 EVA RP Spacewalk (repress) Depressurized airlock of P at t1, repressurized airlock of D at t2 Internal to tethered or free to Internal 
 REFLT Reflight Object reassigned to a new catalog number on its next flight Not applicable 
 Dest is a body name 
 EO Escape Left P's SOI at t1, In C's SOI from t1 to t2, entered D's SOI at t2 Free 
 EAO Escape attached Attached to P from t1 to t2. In C's SOI till t2, then in D's SOI External 
 EN Encounter same as EO, but denotes specifically a single flyby of the central body P with periapsis time equal to te (ODate value), before departing the SOI at t2. 
 OI Orbit insertion Left P's SOI at t1, entered C's SOI at t1 and entered a bound orbit around C at t2. This will be paired with a next phase with an empty Parent (implied equal to C) describing the phase that begins with orbit insertion and ending with landing, impact or orbit departure OE. 
 OE Orbit escape In orbit around C at t1, performed escape burn at t2. Next phase will describe the phase from escape burn to departing sphere of influence. 
 Special cases 
 ERR Error No object corresponding to this entry (tracking or cataloging errors) - 
For case C (Collision) the collision can result in the destruction of the object, in which case there is no
subsequent phase; or the object can survive, in which case t2 starts a new phase. If object A collides with object B,
there is a C status for each of the objects A and B. That is, A has a phase that ends with 'A collides with B',
and B has a phase that ends with 'B collides with A'. If A survives, B is the parent object for A's next phase,
and vice versa.
